
Knee osteoarthritis Analysis(OA) is the most prevalent cartilage articulation genes disorder in the world. OA results in persistent disability, early detection of OA is incredibly important nowadays. It affects an enormous number of elderly people due to ageing. Since the elderly the population  would like to have a pain free active life, the diagnosis of OA has become a serious social and economic issue in health management. Average generation also gets affected due to an increasing obesity, making study of OA important. Osteoarthritis may damage ligaments, menisci, and muscles. Bone or cartilage fragments may degrade within the joint space, causing irritation and pain as shown in Figure 1. Hence early detection of cartilage deterioration is necessary. Osteophytes(cartilage degeneration leads to bony projection at joints), may develop, causing additional pain and doubtless damaging nearby tissues. According to a survey it is estimated 10%-15% of adults over 60 have some extent of osteoarthritis. OA commonly affects the joints within the knee, hands, feet, and spine, and is additionally common in other joints like the shoulder and hip joints. There are two sorts of OA: primary OA and secondary OA. Primary osteoarthritis could be due to many reasons like inflammatory, metabolic risks not only ‘wear and tear’ arthritis. Hence it is called a heterogeneous disease. Secondary OA is a pre-existing joint abnormality like trauma, injury such as sports injury, employment that needs kneeling or squatting for extended amounts of time, diabetes, or obesity. Though the aetiology is different than that of primary OA, the resulting symptoms and pathology are identical. Symptoms are pain, loss of ability, and joint stiffens after exercise or use. To assess the integrity of the cartilage, its biochemical composition must be measured. Several compositional Magnetic Resonance Image (MRI) techniques are introduced that are sensitive to either proteoglycan (delayed Gadolinium-enhanced MRI[dGEMRIC], Sodium-MRI, glycosominology chemical exchange saturation transfer [gagCEST]) or to a mixture of components (T2 time constant, time constant within the rotating frame [T1], magnetization transfer). Recently, DTI was introduced as a completely unique biomarker which will capture proteoglycan content and collagen structure simultaneously. Resonance imaging (MRI) methods are commonly used for clinical study of the structural changes within the articulation genes and, specifically, in articular cartilage. MRI systems provide highly precise images of tissue within the body. The systems detect and process the signals generated when hydrogen atoms, which are abundant in tissue, are placed in an exceedingly flux and excited by a resonant magnetic excitation pulse. Hydrogen atoms have an inherent torque as a result of their nuclear spin. When placed in an exceedingly strong flux, the magnetic moments of those hydrogen tend to align. Superficially, one can consider the hydrogen nuclei in an exceedingly static flux as an elastic string under tension. The nuclei have a Larmor frequency determined by their localized flux strength, even as a string contains a resonant frequency determined by the strain thereon. For hydrogen nuclei in an exceedingly typical 1.5T MRI field, the resonant frequency is approximately 64MHz. To measure MRI parameters in cartilage, the cartilage has to be annotated and segmented, which is sometimes done by an expert or a trained Radiologist which takes few hours to finish segmenting all cartilage plates (tibia, femur, patella) from a patient’s MRI. This fashion of segmentation isn't adaptable and intensely slow. Deep learning-based models are successful in performing quick and accurate segmentation of brain, tumour, pancreas, cardiac substructures and other biological parts. Here, we imply to use deep learning methods to automate the segmentation of knee cartilages.
